Once you’ve sorted out the key aspects that can affect the success of your REST API integration project at the very early stages, 
it’s highly recommended to develop a visualization of the data objects you will need to map. This will not only bring more structure into your project and 
help others – your teammates, non-technical colleagues, consultants – understand what you’re doing or have done, but it will also give 
you a clear understanding of how much data transformation needs to be performed.

I have already written about Data Mapping Best Practices before, so if you would like to learn more about it, you’re more than welcome to
check out that article. In short, this phase can be divided into two stages. The first one is logical data mapping, which is rather a high-level, 
conceptual phase of the project, where you can bring in non-technical people such as your colleagues from accounting or sales. Next, it is followed 
by physical data mapping, which gets down to a precise correlation of every data object in question.

Physical data mapping example
Physical data mapping example
The image above is, no doubt, rather a fancy representation of how you can perform physical mapping. In practice, it can be as simple as using an 
Excel or a Google Spreadsheet where you put your source application on one side and the destination application on the other, listing not only the
object or field names but also other key pieces of information such as:

object or field IDs,
the respective data type of each object,
maximum field length,
is the respective object / field required or not, and so on
One important thing to do when working on data mapping is eliminate or at least limit any confusion in terminology. For example, the word ‘approval’
may mean, or rather, cover entirely different processes depending on the application vendor. Over time, it might even make sense to create some kind of a 
glossary for most common terms.
The image above is, no doubt, rather a fancy representation of how you can perform physical mapping. In practice, 
it can be as simple as using an Excel or a Google Spreadsheet where you put your source application on one side and the 
destination application on the other, listing not only the object or field names but also other key pieces of information such as:

object or field IDs,
the respective data type of each object,
maximum field length,
is the respective object / field required or not, and so on
One important thing to do when working on data mapping is eliminate or at least limit any confusion in terminology. 
For example, the word ‘approval’ may mean, or rather, cover entirely different processes depending on the application vendor.
Over time, it might even make sense to create some kind of a glossary for most common terms.
